## foamCleanTutorials

Run either Allwclean, Allclean or default cleanCase in current directory and all its subdirectories.

## foamListTimes

lists the time directories for a case, omitting the 0 directory by default; the -rm option deletes the listed time directories, so that a case can be cleaned of time directories with results by the following command.
`foamListTimes -rm`

## foamCloneCase

creates a new case, by copying the 0, system and constant directories from an existing case; executed simply by the following command, where oldCase refers to an existing case directory.
`foamCloneCase oldCase newCase`

## foamCleanPolyMesh

deletes mesh files for a case; useful to execute before regenerating a mesh, particularly with snappyHexMesh which generates refinement history and other files that might need to be removed when re-meshing.

## foamDictionary

The foamDictionary utility offer several options for writing, editing and adding keyword entries in case files

The -entry option allows the user to print the entry for a particular keyword, e.g. divSchemes in the example below

`foamDictionary -entry divSchemes system/fvSchemes`

The “. ” syntax allows access to keywords with levels of sub-dictionary. For example, the div(phi,U) keyword can be accessed within the divSchemes sub-dictionary by the following command.

`foamDictionary -entry "divSchemes.div(phi,U)" system/fvSchemes`

The -value option causes only the entry to be written.

`foamDictionary -entry "divSchemes.div(phi,U)" -value system/fvSchemes`

foamDictionary can set entries with the -set option. If the user wishes to change the div(phi,U) to the upwind scheme, they can enter the following.

`foamDictionary -entry "divSchemes.div(phi,U)" -set "bounded Gauss upwind" system/fvSchemes`

foamDictionary can add entries with the -add option. If the user wishes to add an entry named turbulence to divSchemes with the upwind scheme, they can enter the following.

`foamDictionary -entry "divSchemes.turbulence" -add "bounded Gauss upwind" system/fvSchemes`

## foamSearch

foamSearch provides a useful tool to get a quick list of schemes used in all the tutorials. For example, to print all the default entries for ddtSchemes for cases in the \$FOAM_TUTORIALS directory, the user can type:

`foamSearch $FOAM_TUTORIALS fvSchemes ddtSchemes.default`

foamDictionary functionality to extract and sort keyword entries from all files of a specified name in a specified dictionary. The -c option counts the number of entries of each type, e.g. the user could searche for the choice of solver for the p equation in all the fvSolution files in the tutorials.

`foamSearch -c $FOAM_TUTORIALS fvSolution solvers.p.solver`

```table
    default         backward;
    default         CrankNicolson 0.9;
    default         Euler;
    default         localEuler;
    default         none;
    default         steadyState;
```

The search shows GAMG to be the most common choice in all the tutorials.

```table
     59 solver          GAMG;
      3 solver          PBiCG;
     18 solver          PCG;
      5 solver          smoothSolver;
```

## foamGet

The foamGet script copies configuration files into a case quickly and conveniently. The user must be inside a case directory to run the script or identify the case directory with the -case option.

From the output, the user could select the flowRatePatch function to monitor the flow rate at the outlet patch. The flowRatePatch configuration file can be copied into the system directory using foamGet:
`foamGet flowRatePatch`
The flowRatePatch configuration is then included in the case by adding to the functions sub-dictionary in the controlDict file:

```dict
    functions
    {
        #includeFunc streamlines
        #includeFunc flowRatePatch
    }
```

## foamNewApp

foamNewApp will create the directory structure and all the files needed to create the new application from scratch

## foamTOVTK

[legacy VTK file format writer](https://openfoamwiki.net/index.php/FoamToVTK)

## foamNew

Create a new standard OpenFOAM source or template file

- new header file: foamNew H <name>
- new implementation file: foamNew C <name>
- new inline function file: foamNew I <name>
- new IO section file: foamNew IO <name>
- new application file: foamNewApp <name>
