# Sampling and monitoring data

## Probing data

The functions for probing data are boundaryProbes, internalProbes and probes as listed in section 6.2.1.11. All functions work on the basis that the user provides some point locations and a list of fields, and the function writes out values of the fields are those locations. The differences between the functions are as follows.

probes identifies the nearest cells to the probe locations and writes out the cell values; data is written into a single file in time-value format, suitable for plotting a graph.
boundaryProbes and internalProbes interpolate field data to the probe locations, with the locations being snapped onto boundaries for boundaryProbes; data sets are written to separate files at scheduled write times (like fields). data.
Generally probes is more suitable for monitoring values at smaller numbers of locations, whereas the other functions are typically for sampling at large numbers of locations.
As an example, the user could use the pitzDaily case set up in section 6.2.3. The probes function is best configured by copying the file to the local system directory using foamGet.

`foamGet probes`

The user can modify the probeLocations in the probes file as follows.

```cpp

#includeEtc "caseDicts/postProcessing/probes/probes.cfg"

fields (p U);
probeLocations
(
    (0.01 0 0)
);

//
```

The configuration is completed by adding the #includeFunc directive to functions in the controlDict file.

```cpp

functions
{
    #includeFunc  probes
    ...  other function objects here ...
}
```

## sampling data

OpenFOAM provides a set of sampling function objects to sample field data, either through a 1D line for plotting on graphs or a 2D plane and 3D surfaces for displaying as images. Each sampling tool is specified in a dictionary either in the main functions dictionary of the controlDict file, or separate files in the case system directory. The data can be written in a range of formats including well-known graphing packages such as Grace/xmgr, gnuplot and jPlot.

referece: https://www.openfoam.com/documentation/user-guide/userse21.php
example: \$FOAM_RUN//trainning/101programming/prog_scratchFoam/scratchFoam/test_case

## fieldMinMax

Calculates the value and location of scalar minimum and maximum for a list of user-specified fields.
check the usage by
`foamInfo fieldMinMax`

get example by
`foamGet minMaxMagnitude`

## Live monitoring of data

Functions like probes produce a single file of time-value data, suitable for graph plotting. When the function is executed during a simulation, the user may wish to monitor the data live on screen. The foamMonitor script enables this; to discover its functionality, the user run it with the -help option. The help option includes an example of monitoring residuals that we can demonstrate in this section.
Firstly, include the residuals function in the controlDict file.

```cpp
   functions
    {
    #includeFunc  residuals
    ...  other function objects here ...
    }
```

The default fields whose residuals are captured are p and U. Should the user wish to configure other fields, they should make copy the residuals file in their system and edit the fields entry accordingly. All functions files are within the \$FOAM_ETC/caseDicts directory. The residuals file can be located using foamInfo:

`foamInfo residuals`

It can then be copied into the system directory conveniently using foamGet:

`foamGet residuals`

The user should then run foamMonitor using the -l option for a log scale y-axis on the residuals file as follows. If the command is executed before the simulation is complete, they can see the graph being updated live.

`foamMonitor -l postProcessing/residuals/0/residuals.dat`
